Screw the iMac, LG has a 38-inch curved monitor.
Oh, and by the way, it's also a PC with Ryzen
and supports Ubuntu 16.04.
How about that?
It's the LG all-in-one.
Ready for this catchy name, Wes?
The LG 38CK900G-B.
That rolls right off the tongue.
Yeah, it comes with a Vega graphics,
eight gigabytes of DDR4 RAM,
the AMD Ryzen chip and a 128 gigabyte SSD,
which is blank by default,
but lists support for Ubuntu 16.04.
Beautiful.
Yeah, I wouldn't mind an ultra-wide IPS display
with a 21.9 aspect ratio and a 3840 by 1600 resolution.
The only downside, you gotta contact them for pricing
because they're probably gonna wanna sell you about 5,000
because these are all for professional deployments.
Let's see if we can't find something
a little more reasonably cheap.
You're saying we're gonna outfit
the whole JB crew with these?
That's what you're saying?
Right on, that's a great idea.
That'll be our standard broadcast hardware.
I actually think we could make a good business case
for that.
Yeah, absolutely.
I would be more productive.
I mean, I'm staring at two separate screens here.
It's really killing it.
Oh, you need an ultra-wide.
You would be more productive.
You might even be ultra more productive.
Yeah, right?
All those problems I have in my life, gone.
Oh, Wes, if only it was that easy.
This is Linux Unplugged, episode 251 for May 29th, 2018.
Welcome to Linux Unplugged, your weekly Linux talk show
that's not so sure what that smell is, it's sniffin' around.
My name is Chris.
My name is Wes.
Hello, Mr. Payne, we have such a fun show put together today.
I'm glad we're able to get this connection working
so that we can talk about great things,
like a massive donation going to the Gnome Foundation,
Thunderbolt networking coming to Linux,
major distribution releases, and Mark Shuttleworth
is turning up the heat on canonicals rhetoric about Red Hat.
Plus, we've got a great app pick.
We'll do a look back at Fedora 26,
some new inbound open source stuffs,
or at least some stuffs you're gonna get
on your Linux desktop, and then, perhaps,
the conclusion to our quest for the best Linux.
Best Linux laptop of 2018.
I've been taking in your feedback.
We put a vote out to the audience.
We're looking at the numbers,
and we're looking at the suggestions.
At the end of this week's episode,
one laptop will go off our list.
We'll put another laptop on there
if we can come to an agreement,
and regardless of what laptop on our list
you're thinking about getting,
we'll wrap up with some tips for whichever one
that are just great to keep in mind
when you're trying to buy a system to run Linux.
So we've got so many good things to get into.
Plus, I'm on the road, tell you a little bit about why.
I'm in this awkwardly painted and smelling place
in Grants Pass, Oregon, on my way down to Texas.
We'll tell you about what's going on with that,
and all other kinds of goodies.
It's a packed, packed episode.
So let's not go any further
without bringing in our mumble room.
Time, appropriate greetings, virtual lug.
What's up?
Hello. Hello.
Hello, guys.
I am glad to have all of you here this week
because we have so many things to get into,
and I thought let's start off with some good fricking news.
Gnome is announcing a $1 million donation
over the next two years.
An anonymous donor,
and I'd love to know who this anonymous person is,
has donated a million dollars over the next two years,
some of which will be matching funds
with other folks' donations.
That is huge, right?
And say what you will about Gnome.
We've had a lot of discussions about it recently,
but they do great work.
It's wonderful that we have this good open source project,
but open source is hard.
It takes a lot of effort,
and yes, they have funding from Red Hat and other people,
but a million bucks over two years,
that's just a big commitment
that things are gonna get better.
People will continue doing that awesome hard work,
and us freeloading community,
we're gonna see the benefit.
No kidding.
That's what, $125,000 a quarter?
That's probably how it'll get trickled
into the foundation, too.
Yeah, that's a good way to think about it,
which is a serious amount of money.
Either way, you crack it,
even if it is over quarters or months or whatever.
I like that.
I read that story a lot.
I've seen a lot of people talking about it,
and it's not like big, big news,
but I think it's still worth mentioning,
and I wonder if maybe one day
we'll get to figure out who it is.
But moving on,
let's talk about Thunderbolt networking on Linux.
So Thunderbolt, like the spec,
allows for peer-to-peer networking
with really relative simplicity on Mac OS and Windows.
You plug two machines into each other
over the Thunderbolt connection, and it just works.
That has technically been possible on Linux via the kernel,
but there really hasn't been anything in user space
to facilitate the networking.
And that's changed now,
thanks to Christian Kellner and Thomas Holler
from Network Manager.
And they're working together to figure out
what in user space needed to get done
to make Thunderbolt peer-to-peer networking work.
Think about this.
You have the massive, fast,
PCI-bust-to-PCI-bust Thunderbolt interface,
and you could run networking over that.
And if you now connect,
if you have modern Network Manager
and modern-ish Linux kernel,
it hasn't been in there for like a super long time,
but if you have a kind of a recent one, you're good.
You match those two things up,
and all you have to do after that
is plug a Thunderbolt cable into one end and another end,
and they detect the presence,
and they set up the networking.
The way it works is when you plug in a Thunderbolt device,
it actually creates a little device name
on your file system in sysfs.
It creates a little device.
And there's some certain attributes
if it supports networking.
And now what's technically happening here
is a Udev rule and Network Manager are working together.
When they see a Thunderbolt device
that has that networking attribute,
they can, you can now, you can option to set them up,
and within a couple of seconds,
you now have a local network running over Thunderbolt.
That is just so cool, super handy.
I think of so many times where you have to like
figure out a crossover cable,
and then you probably have to understand
how networking works to make this work.
So if a layperson can use that, that is totally slick.
I'm also curious,
I wonder if you could pixie boot off this,
because then you could have like a Docker container
or just a little script on your setup
to have a TFTP pixie boot server running,
plug in a Thunderbolt cable between two computers
and away you go, no more USB drives.
That's a great idea.
That is a really clever idea,
like a great rescue system, like a laptop.
If you had machines you were saving that had Thunderbolt
and you had a laptop with Thunderbolt,
you could just blow them away and reload them
using network boot over Thunderbolt.
That's a cool idea, Wes.
Yeah, the other nice part here is that
they link to the Udev rules,
so if you're like me and you don't often use network manager,
you can just load this thing yourself and get it working.
Ah, yes, yes, that is really nice too.
Yeah, I could definitely appreciate that right now.
I have two laptops that are right next
to each other physically,
but they cannot talk to each other
because the wifi here is just a mess,
and where I'm at right now,
I'll tell you more about that in a minute,
but where I'm at right now is just,
it's devastating for networking,
and if I could just take one cable
and hook these two machines up,
and neither one of them have an ethernet port either.
Ironically, they have USB-C,
but they do not have an ethernet port.
So, oh, that's the world we live in now.
All right, well, we have different segments
of the show today.
I'm trying out a few different format options
while I'm on the road,
and I thought some category names
might help me put my head around
what we're gonna talk about.
So this next one is making ourselves at GNOME,
and this is Endless, and Endless 3.4.0 has come out.
Now, you may recall we had a chat
with Michael Hall a while ago.
He's now working at Endless,
and he wrote a post on their community.endless.os page
about the new Endless 3.4,
and they say there's lots of exciting features,
but some of them that are jumping out at me right now
is options to manage your data consumption
in really smart ways.
Now, you'll recall Endless has been really built
as an OS that is really graceful at handling
when you have no connectivity.
They have local Wikipedia articles and stuff like that.
It gracefully switches between online and offline,
and they're just doubling down on that,
and I think this is really cool,
and one of the ways that they're doubling down
on this offline stuff,
and you're gonna think this is weird at first,
but stick with me here.
They're introducing an Android companion app for Endless OS,
and I'm gonna tell you more about that here in a moment,
but before we go off in too many different directions,
let's focus on the data consumption stuff.
You can now mark in Endless 3.4,
which is based on GNOME and GTK stuff,
you can now mark your connection
as having a limited or unlimited data,
and then that tells the operating system
to enable automatic updates,
to wait until you have good, convenient wireless,
or whatever you might have.
You can now use a little bit of intelligence there
between it's trying to detect how much bandwidth you have,
and you being able to now implicitly tell it
to not use too much bandwidth,
is you can just totally turn off automatic updates
in those situations,
and they're combining that with schedules,
so you can now also say,
with all exceptions except for these days and these hours,
just turn off automatic updates.
Don't even do an apt update.
Wow.
And now you can just go in there,
and there is a GNOME settings dialog
that exposes all of that.
That's kinda nice,
and I could definitely see a use case for that
outside the US and outside places
that have pretty generally good connectivity.
I kid you not, the town I am in today has no internet.
The whole town has no internet where I'm at today.
So don't do any updates.
No, I should definitely not.
And so I could kinda,
you can really, even in the quote unquote west,
you can appreciate features like this,
but let's talk about that companion app for a second,
because that's probably what piqued your interest.
This is an interesting idea from Endless,
and it's an app that's going to allow you
to view content from your computer on any Android device.
Now remember, the Endless OS has a whole bunch
of native apps that they've created with offline data,
and they say while the Endless companion app itself
is not publicly available,
all of the support for this app
has been built into Endless 3.4 that is available.
The companion app was created because we found
that many of our users have a single Endless computer
in a household with multiple people
trying to access the information at the same time.
With the Endless companion app,
everyone will be able to access the information
found on their computers with any compatible phone
or tablet without using any internet connection
or data connection, so it's all gonna be over the LAN.
Oh really?
Yeah, that's kinda neat, right?
That's a great, great idea.
Smart.
Especially in countries where perhaps
internet connectivity is very, very limited,
like apparently Oregon, which is now a country.
Endless 3.4 is also upgrading to GNOME 3.26,
and it will ship with Linux kernel 4.15,
which brings the support up
for a whole bunch of new hardware,
and then they've also updated
some of their own Endless apps,
and they've also made the decision
to include Adblock directly in with Endless,
so when you, it's just pre-installed.
Adblock is just pre-installed with Endless.
That's a lot I just laid on you, Wes,
but Endless is sort of reminding me,
and I don't know if you recall,
but there was a distribution called Xandros
back in the day, and I hope they don't mind this comparison.
Xandros spoke in a way that is familiar
when you read Endless, like for example,
Michael writes, and Michael Hall
is fully technically competent, so.
Absolutely.
They're writing this in a way
that is very, very targeted,
like they talk about how they've updated
their open source core,
and they're not necessarily talking about
how they've updated glibc,
or they're on the latest version of ButterFS programs,
they're talking about the open source core,
like it's more generic,
it's more about a whole inclusive operating system.
And it's just what you need to know.
It's none of the extra details.
Yeah, do you think that's a fair comparison?
Oh yeah, definitely.
I'm just impressed with the focus here,
you know, they have some consistent design vision,
and some of these features are things
that you see in competitors,
or you see in other operating systems
that span the mobile desktop world,
and you have expectations from mobile
of how you can manage a device,
especially for lay users,
and they're kind of taking it to the next level
that you don't have in a lot
of other common Linux desktop environments.
That companion app is a really interesting strategy, huh?
Oh yeah, absolutely.
I mean, it works on the land,
you can just manage it,
if you're kind of the smart one in your house,
or you can teach people to use it,
then boom, super useful.
Anyways, check out EndlessOS if you're interested.
I don't feel like it has a strong draw to our audience,
but I do really like what they're doing over there,
and I really respect that they're trying to build an OS
that is still very useful without internet connectivity,
because I do find like, it's kind of pathetic
when I sit down with my laptop and I have no connectivity,
I don't really have anything to do on my laptop.
Like there's not like a lot to do locally,
and I feel like, and this seems obvious on its face,
but I still think it's worth mentioning,
I feel like 20 years ago, that wasn't the case.
Like I would go online a little bit and do stuff,
but the most of the stuff that I did,
I did locally on my computer.
But now thinking back, I don't even remember
what I was doing, because it wasn't games.
I mean, it was sometimes games,
but I always did stuff locally.
I mean, maybe you just, you need some DOS locally,
you can fire that up when you don't have internet connection
and you'll figure it out what you were doing.
Yeah, just get back in the zone, huh?
So I kind of like the idea of taking these computers
and making them a little bit more valuable
without connectivity, because they're so powerful
and they're so expensive.
It's kind of pathetic that they're so worthless
without an internet connection.
And you know, it's sort of the anti-Chromebook in a way,
and I also appreciate that.
All right, well, let's keep moving on,
and I gotta tell you about my internet connectivity
situation today.
It is, I've never had a situation like this
in my entire life where the town loses internet,
and it's slowly coming back, but it is so awful.
And so I'll tell you all about it.
And let's start by clearing the decks
and thanking Linux Academy for making this show possible.
As I am watching someone almost get in an accident right now
as they pull out onto the road,
I can't even tell you about the late nights
after I worked hours and hours at my job,
I would then get in my car and I would drive down
to the community college so I could take my Linux courses.
Wow, have things changed.
Now I can do it from the comfort of my laptop,
from the comfort of my desk, or the comfort of my home.
LinuxAcademy.com slash unplugged.
You don't have to be like this Subaru driver
who almost just got in an accident right outside my window.
So that way they can go out and get something done.
You can take advantage of it
using something called the internet.
I know it's new.
You're gonna have to get an account,
but I think it's worth dialing up to and trying out.
The information superhighway is gonna be game changing,
and these companies are gonna be able to put things online
where you can just tap in and get the knowledge directly.
And, oh wait, oh wait, that's already happened,
and it's Linux Academy.
Go try it out at LinuxAcademy.com slash unplugged.
You can sign up for a free seven day trial.
Kick the tires.
They got hands on scenario based labs
to give you real experience.
I say that with emphasis because that means
after you're done at Linux Academy,
you can go do it in production,
and you're not gonna be all anxious and nervous
that you've never done this before.
You can speak with authority on a topic
because you'll have done it.
You pick the courseware, you set the distribution,
the servers that spin up match that.
They got human instructors,
whatever you get stuck, you need help,
they're there for you, they're there.
If they're not there helping you,
they're helping other people, they're updating content,
they're making sure your subscription stays valuable.
So go to LinuxAcademy.com slash unplugged,
the number one resource online
for people to learn more about anything that runs Linux
or anything that Linux runs on top of.
LinuxAcademy.com slash unplugged, free seven day trial.
Yeah, so I'm on my way down to Austin, Texas.
I'm going down there, actually to see Linux Academy,
they're in Keller, but I'm going down there
the week after Linux Fest Northwest,
or Linux Fest Texas.
I'm going to Linux Academy, so speaking of Linux Academy.
But right now, I'm on my way down to Austin
and I've stopped in Grants Pass, Oregon.
And that's where everything went wrong.
It's been a really hard day.
And I'm actually, in a way, I'm really relieved
to be here chatting with you guys
because today has been, you know, it's like,
you know what I mean, like when you've gone through
like something and then like you're going back
to a little bit of routine, how it just feels right.
You know that feeling?
Comforting comforts of home.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah, so we left early Monday after,
so it turns out, Wes, Levi is allergic to bees
in a really, really bad way.
No, oh Levi, poor buddy.
Yeah, he got stung on just like, you know,
we just went to a park, went for a walk,
and he got stung by a bee.
And no big deal, it started with some really bad swelling
around his eyes and then it turned into like mumps
all over his face, like his face got all bumpy
and old and weird looking and his ears started itching
and then, you know, by then we were already hot on it.
We knew something was wrong by then
and we'd already give him a Benadryl.
And then it spreaded to the rest of his body
and he got hives, these big red hives,
and his hair looked all mangy and gross everywhere
and he was out of it.
He was a different dog, it was weird.
And we had to take him into the emergency doggy ER
and they gave him like an epi shot,
they gave him a steroid, and they gave him more Benadryl.
And so he has been in full recovery for three days.
It's been, he has been a totally different dog.
It's been really weird because, you know,
he's this happy-go-lucky, smart, clever, curious dog.
He's always spunky and wanting to have fun.
Yeah, and he's just been totally like slow and mopey
and sad and he doesn't want to jump up on anything
and his skin hurts.
And so today he's finally been getting better,
but we got a little bit of a late start.
And so we drove hard yesterday for eight hours
and ended up in Grant's Pass,
which is our first planned stop on the route
to get some work done on Lady Jupes
to get the suspensions upgraded,
put in some sway bars and put in some Sumo shocks
and all these things that we,
they have Kony shocks and Sumo springs
and all these things that they're putting in there.
It's really funny, the names.
You gotta be robust if you're venturing across the country.
Yeah, you know, you do, you're right, exactly.
And he took me under, they park it up on this,
you know, like this whole rig
and then they've got like this trench underneath it.
And so the guy's name was Eric.
He took me underneath and Eric showed me
like all the different stuff and it was just really,
it was a really cool experience.
And then they're like, you know,
and we also have a rental car that you guys can use
for the day.
And you know, you can drive around town.
We're like, well, this is great
cause I have to get to a motel room
where I'm gonna be recording my show
because I'm not gonna be able to record in the RV
cause they're banging on the frame.
So we get in the car and they're like,
oh, before you go, we have this waiting room.
Do you wanna, you know, if you have to do it,
cause I mentioned, you know,
I needed to get some connectivity.
We have a waiting room with wifi.
Would you like to just check that out?
I'll go over there and do a speed check.
So I get in there and I'm talking to people like,
yeah, no, the wifi doesn't seem to be working.
Like, oh, go figure, right?
And so we leave, come over to the motel.
The motel's like, yeah,
hey, we're having internet problems there.
Our wifi isn't working.
And I'm like, oh, okay, all right.
Well, tell you what, I'm gonna go drive around
for a little bit and I'll be back.
We'll see about the internet problem.
And so I go over to La Quinta and to a holiday express,
all these different like hotels.
No, everybody's, internet's down today.
And the internet's not working today.
So I'm at the last hotel that I was gonna try
and I'm in the lobby and there's a guy
who clearly looks like an IT guy
because he looks just like I do.
And so I'm like, and I got a Coder radio shirt on, you know?
And so he's like, oh yeah, no, no,
the internet's out in the town today.
I'm like, what?
Yeah, no, there's no internet here in the town today.
I'm like, what do you mean there's no internet
in the town today?
Cause like, this is all hitting me at once.
He's like, yeah, I don't know, there's something going on
and our provider has an outage and I'm like, provider?
Singular?
Like, what?
You have one provider?
No!
And yeah, yeah, no, internet's out.
I'm like, oh God, okay, well,
I guess I'll have to use my phone.
All right, you know, that's fine.
So I come back to the original motel that I had booked
and I go in there and I'm like, all right,
yeah, I think we're gonna do it.
Well, that's fine.
Nobody's got wifi.
She's like, okay, great.
Well, Mr. Fisher, I would love to get you in your room,
but we have lost the key to your room.
No, that's not a thing.
That cannot be a thing.
Yeah.
And this is a one o'clock, the show starts at two o'clock
and I'm like, okay, well, I have a work thing
and I kinda need to be in there by 1.30.
Is that gonna be doable?
So the gal looks around, she's like,
you know what I'm gonna do?
I'm gonna send my husband over to the hardware store
and he's gonna go get a new key made right now
for you, Mr. Fisher.
So why don't you just hang tight
and he'll go get that key made for you.
So he runs over to the hardware store, the husband,
and he gets the key made.
And I'm like, all right,
well, I'm gonna go get a bite to eat.
Might as well go get some food.
So I go get a bite to eat.
I come back to the hotel, the story's almost over.
I get back to the hotel and the husband's there
and the lady that runs the place is gone.
And I'm like, he's like, you know what?
I can check you in,
cause I know you got a work thing.
I'm like, yeah, I do have a work thing.
Thank you.
He's like, here, I got the key made for you,
which by the way, barely works.
It doesn't fit well.
He's like, okay, well,
there's just a couple of things you need to know.
We are pet friendly,
but you cannot let your pet on any of the chairs.
Do not let your pet on the bed
and do not let your pet in the bathroom.
Okay.
All right.
So that's a lot of policing of my dog.
Also, no smoking.
I'm like, okay, that's fine.
I don't plan to smoke.
It's not a big deal.
He's like, no, really, you can't smoke.
I'm like, that's fine.
I don't smoke.
That's fine.
Well, but you know what I'm saying, right, man?
And he takes like that,
like holding a doobie hand gesture,
you know, up to the lips and does that.
I'm saying, no smoking.
You know what I mean, man?
And I'm like, yeah, I got you.
No smoking.
It's like, okay, I'm just saying.
Wow.
What, like, what?
What do I, do I look like some big pothead?
Like, do I, do I actually wear my hair
in dreads or something?
And I'm looking at him, I'm like,
okay, can you let me in the room?
That's all I could say,
because my dog won't smoke any joints.
I promise.
I'll cut Levi off for a couple of hours.
He's not feeling well anyways.
So I get in the room, and sure enough,
it's like, you know, two minutes
until we're supposed to be live.
I'm wiring everything together.
Wi-Fi's just not working at all.
And I get a text message from Hadia.
I just got in a car accident.
What?
Is she okay?
She's okay, she's okay.
You know, she's, the place that's working on Lady Joob's
let us borrow their car.
They got like a little Dodge Neon.
And she backed it.
So the thing about Grants Pass,
the whole town is a town of one ways.
It's all one ways.
It's all one ways except for the side streets.
And so she's pulling onto a one way,
but she was pulling the wrong way
because she didn't recognize that.
And so some people started honking at her.
She wasn't, it was like friendly honks.
Not like, oh my God, you idiot.
It was like, hey, better watch out.
So she puts the car in reverse and backs up
and backs up right into a pole.
Oh!
So I am five minutes from live time,
and a girlfriend has backed the car into a pole
and is now I'm dealing with that.
And I got no internet connectivity.
And I'm sitting here thinking to myself,
why am I doing this?
Like, I just want to do a show.
I just want to record the show.
And so finally I got the key from the guy.
I get in the room, I get everything set up.
I get the text message from Hadia about the car accident.
Make sure that she's okay.
Make sure that we're squared away
with the place that's loaning us the car.
And now as I go live, the wifi is working here just enough
for us to have this conversation
because I've only got two bars of signal.
So I've got one machine on the phone
and I've got one machine on the wifi
that's still dropping 3% of all of my packets.
I mean, you can't be a perfectionist, Chris, come on.
I know, I know.
So there you go.
That is my trip to Texas so far.
I feel like there needs to be a central database
of cell signal and all of those things.
Like there needs to be one central repository
of how all of that works.
But anyways, the journey continues on.
And now I'm in some weird motel room
that smells really strange and is very, very yellow.
Oh, hi there.
And my lady friend just got back from her walk.
And so we're stationed here in Grants Pass
and while they work on the rig for one and a half days or so
and then once the work completes,
we'll continue on our trip.
Anyways, if you want to hang out while we're in Texas,
jupitabroadcasting.com.texas for the Meetup Telegram group.
And then you can also get yourself a little swag
at teespring.com.jbtexas is where you can get the swag at.
Yeah, it is a good looking shirt.
I'm very happy with it.
And I love tux with a beard, teespring.com.jbtexas
to get yourself that.
All right, let's talk about Canonical and Ubuntu
and Red Hat and OpenShift and OpenStack
and all of those things,
because that's what everybody else
is talking about right now.
So there was a summit just a bit ago,
the OpenStack Cloud Summit or some shenanigans like that
that I didn't make it down to.
But your good buddy, Wes, Stephen J. Vanhoef-Nicholas,
made it, and Stephen J., he went down
and he noticed that there's been a tone change recently.
And I'm not surprised if you think about it,
Canonical's moving towards an IPO
and so perhaps it's time for a tone change.
Shuttleworth started out his keynote,
sort of typical of a keynote.
He said, our mission is to remove all friction
from deploying OpenStack.
We can deliver OpenStack deployments with two people
in less than two weeks anywhere in the world.
So, you know, a typical kind of opening to a keynote speech
and kind of compelling, like, you know,
really selling it there is like,
we have a real advantage here.
We're using upstream technology.
It's super fast and easy to get it deployed
and you can do it with less staff.
People love hearing that.
Yeah, but then things started to heat up a little bit.
Then Amazon came into the conversation.
And stick with me because I think this is,
I think this is indicative of where Canonical is going
and what they feel like their value is going to be.
So he said, Mark Shuttleworth,
Amazon has increased efficiency.
So now everyone is driving down the cost of infrastructure.
Everyone engages with Ubuntu, not Red Hat or VMware.
Google, IBM, Microsoft are investing and innovating
to drive down the cost of infrastructure.
Every single one of those companies works with Canonical
to deliver public services.
Then Shuttleworth got down to brass tacks.
And he said, not one of them engages with VMware
to offer those public services.
They can't afford to.
Clearly they have the cash,
but they don't have the complete on efficiencies.
And so does your private cloud.
So Canonical is rolling out a migration service
to help users shift from VMware
to a fully managed version
of Canonical's Ubuntu OpenStack distribution.
Customers want this because when they take out VMware,
their Canonical is regularly told
that our fully managed OpenStack solution
costs half of the equivalent VMware service.
Wow.
Yeah, taking some shots at VMware in a big way,
but things got even more interesting when Red Hat came up.
When we're invited to bid and present head to head
with Red Hat, we win four out of five times,
including in companies that have never had any other Linux
than Red Hat in the building.
Four out of five times.
He then goes on to add that Google, Microsoft, and IBM
will be using and are using Ubuntu
to underpin their Kubernetes offering
because if you want to build on your OpenStack service
for containers, it makes sense to use exactly the same stack.
It's half the cost of VMware,
a third of the cost of Red Hat,
and it's a truly portable multi-cloud Kubernetes.
And he's really touching on the difference here
between what Canonical and Red Hat
are offering for this space.
Canonical is focusing on delivering inexpensive services
and then offering support on upstream code,
upstream OpenStack, and upstream Kubernetes,
right, whereas Red Hat is offering branded OpenStack
and branded Kubernetes.
Do you agree, Wes?
Oh yeah, no, absolutely.
I mean, I can see some large enterprises
where they still have that trust relationship,
where they want those kinds of, you know,
whatever additional features,
but for people that are, yeah, in the commodity market,
trying to be as efficient as possible,
who are reselling, who are managing a cloud service
for other people to use,
you want something where, yes,
you have support from Ubuntu, but it's all open source,
it's all standard, everything you already know works,
and if for some reason you need to shift
or you no longer want to pay Ubuntu, okay,
it's all open source,
you've already built your experience with it.
It's really a good value proposition.
Yeah, yeah, and I like,
I like just sort of dropping the pretense
and just saying, look,
Canonical is bringing you a more cost-effective solution.
That's what we're trying to do.
We're trying to compete on cost
and we're trying to compete on upstream.
We're trying to compete with not against upstream,
but using upstream.
Right, and then as upstream adds features,
their offerings just get better and better.
Right, and I think that's the opposite
of how a lot of people in the consumer space
would look at Red Hat and Canonical.
They'd look at Red Hat,
oh, Red Hat's gonna upstream, they'll upstream at all.
They're using everything upstream.
And Canonical's the one
that has the not-invented-here syndrome.
Have you ever heard of Unity?
Oh my God, right?
But in the reality, in the space
where they're gonna try to make some money,
where it's gonna really matter for the IPO,
their strategy is to lean on upstream and then support that.
I'm just saying as somebody who would be coming into this
kind of with a fresh take,
if I was gonna deploy something like this,
that would be the approach I prefer.
Do you think I'm missing something, Wes?
I guess it's maybe the value that Red Hat's adding in there
that I just don't appreciate?
Yeah, I mean, they do have years of experience
in this space providing enterprise support,
providing customized solutions.
So if you are like an older generation of company,
if you have a lot of your own on-premises structure
and you have special needs that are already invested
in that ecosystem,
or you just have a lot of cash to burn,
then I think that could still make sense.
I can still see people doing it.
There's a lot of love for Red Hat.
And their services, most of them are open source,
they are good,
but Ubuntu is just that lowest common denominator.
All your developers,
if they're already using Ubuntu,
who spins up Red Hat containers to dev on?
Maybe you're using Fedora.
Ubuntu, it's all the same.
You get the same experience
and then you're just using OpenStack and Kubernetes?
It seems like a winner.
Yeah, I wouldn't be surprised if we see
a more competitive talk like this,
that might be the way to put it,
is not aggressive or however else is being framed by ZDNet,
but maybe just more delineation
between this is what Red Hat offers
and this is what Canonical offers.
Because it seems to me that they have a job here to do.
And Mark is the number one salesperson right now.
The job is to IPO.
The job is to go public.
And the way you do that is by clearly differentiating
what makes your company a valuable standout in the space
versus the competition
that could be using similar technology.
And really the only way to do that
is to message your differences.
And how else are you gonna do that
than by clearly saying we do this better than VMware
and we do that better than Red Hat?
Yeah, it feels like a good spirit.
It's healthy competition.
Hopefully everyone benefits.
Now, let's talk about something bubbly and fun
to sort of offset the big series enterprise stuff
that we just talked about there.
There was a wrap up of KDE Connect development sprint.
And I think this is some good stuff here.
It happened between March 23rd and the 25th of 2018.
And they were working to get KDE Connect developers
gathered in one spot in Barcelona to work for a weekend.
And some good stuff was, as you might expect, developed.
They kicked off the sprint
by going through a backlog of ideas
to decide what was worth implementing
and then also focus on what bugs needed to get fixed.
And one of the most requested features of KDE Connect
was the ability to send SMS messages from the desktop.
They already supported SMS to a certain degree
with the ability to reply to most messages,
but that wasn't quite enough.
And some people even went as far
as trying to roll their own solution in the meantime.
But during the sprint, Simon and Alex started working
on a fully featured interface
for sending SMS easily from the desktop
that includes full conversation views
and the full contacts list support from your phone.
They also worked on improving the functionality
of the multimedia controls.
So now it is possible to display the album art
from your desktop on the Android device,
both in the lock screen and in the multimedia notifications.
And also, you know, less visible,
but just crucial parts of what makes KDE Connect so useful
is the integration with the system.
And KDE Connect got some work on integrating
with other systems like Nautilus.
So people don't have to use Plasma or Dolphin
to have all of the great features of KDE Connect.
It just makes me so happy to hear this, Wes.
Makes me honestly want to get an Android device.
Have you thought about setting this up?
Yes, actually, I think I might do that
after this year episode.
I've had KDE Connect running in the past
on multiple machines,
but it was always a little more awkward,
especially like some of the stuff that was missing,
like the Nautilus support.
So this is really ramped up.
I don't know if I care about all of these features,
but better integration with Pulse Audio Control,
the SMS stuff.
I don't frequently send SMS,
but when I do, I would much rather do it from my desktop.
So this is huge usability wins.
I'm excited to give it a try, even on my GNOME systems.
What the hell's going on with KDE?
What's going on with Plasma right now?
Why is it getting so, what's going on?
It's like everybody's talking about it these days.
It's kicking butt.
It's a renaissance.
It's blown up.
I just, I feel like we're talking these days
about Qt all the time.
We're talking about the Plasma desktop,
and I don't think it's just because I've started using it.
I think something's happening here.
I feel like things are changing.
How's your Kubuntu experience going so far, Popi?
Or are you on Neon?
I'm still on Neon.
Now, I saw you tweeting or something the other day
about some of the GNOME issue,
but do you kind of use it on a regular basis, honestly?
And do you agree that there seems to be more buzz
these days about the whole Plasma stack?
So in answer to your first question,
yes, I use it all the time.
I have two computers.
Well, that's a lie.
I have tons of computers,
but two main ones that I'm sat at most of the time.
So if I'm sat at my desk in the office,
then I'm sat at GNOME Shell.
It used to be Unity,
and now I've switched to GNOME Shell on 1804.
But as soon as I leave this room,
I pick up my ThinkPad, which is running KDE Neon,
the same one from the Distro Challenge months ago.
And I use that.
And if I go into the office in Canonical,
there's no way I'm carrying this hulking great laptop.
So I take my ThinkPad into the office.
So probably 60-40 split, I would say,
between GNOME Shell and KDE Neon.
Oh, okay.
And yes, I do still love it.
I've just finished doing a review of the KDE Slimbook,
which will go out next week, 31st, on Ubuntu Podcast.
Nice.
And it's the KDE Slimbook and KDE Neon together.
I'm sorry about that train going by.
It's like they were designed for each other.
It's just great.
On that laptop, it's perfect.
Oh, boy, I look forward to hearing that.
So what do you think?
Do you think there is more buzz
around Qt and Plasma these days?
Or is it just because I'm using it more?
I think they've got over that hill
where it seemed that everything was insurmountable,
that it was just, everything looked bad,
it performed bad, it felt bad,
and everyone just felt awful using it.
And they've got past that.
That's now in the past,
and we can forget all about that and move on
and use what they have now, which is brilliant.
And I get updates all the time
because they've got a KDE Neon repo
that's enabled on the KDE Neon images,
so I get constant flow of updates.
I'm always getting the new crack.
It's fantastic.
It's really great.
I love it.
It kind of feels like those post-320 days
in the gnome world when, oh, yes,
this stuff is new and it's usable now,
and you can actually use it in a real system
and it just works.
I really think we need to draw a line in the sand
and say, you know what?
What went before, some of it wasn't good,
but let's look forward.
Let's move forward and look at all the great work
the KDE guys are doing
and the great work that Kubuntu are doing to integrate
that into Ubuntu so that if people want to stay on Ubuntu
and don't like the idea of this fast movie KDE Neon thing,
they can have Kubuntu.
And all the other distros that are using KDE as well,
like OpenSUSE and everyone else,
they're all delivering the best of what KDE guys are doing.
I'm blown away by it.
You know, I just gave the latest OpenSUSE a go
and it's not bad.
OpenSUSE Leap 15,
but they change a few of the defaults in Plasma
that I feel like maybe were a good idea,
like replacing the launcher and a few other things.
But now I kind of dislike it.
I feel like it's not as good as the upstream stuff.
I thought OpenSUSE was mostly pure upstream.
Is that not the case?
Yeah, well, their launcher's not, that's for sure.
And I don't know, oh my gosh, oh my gosh, oh my gosh.
I'm sorry to just derail the show,
but somebody just, a motorcyclist just drove by my window
and he was sitting on his handlebars.
He was not sitting in the seat of his motorcycle.
This town is crazy.
Also, there's just some crazy people walking around
with their clothes off, nothing but their underwear on,
carrying signs about Jesus in this town.
This is a fun one to hang out in.
Anyways, back to OpenSUSE.
Yeah, I mean, so I just gave Leap a try for Linux Action News.
Pretty solid, pretty solid release, really.
And I like the fact that they're gonna make it official
that you can upgrade from Leap to Enterprise.
But yeah, I don't know.
I feel like you're right, Poppy,
that we should just sort of draw a line and say,
things were kind of bad and now things are better.
We've worked on things and things have gotten better.
And maybe some decisions like replacing the launchers
or replacing the login manager and things like that,
maybe it's time to reconsider some of that.
And to be fair, I kind of feel like
that's what Ubuntu just did recently
with the 1710 release, it was like a huge reconsideration.
If you look back at that original Hacker News thread
about all of the stuff they wanted to change in 1710
or before 1710 when people were submitting suggestions
and then you look what shipped,
a lot of that stuff got rethought.
And I think every distribution just needs to do that
from time to time.
And I think people's assumptions about the distribution
from time to time and I think people's assumptions
about some of these desktops and file systems
needs to be rethought.
BcacheFS is working on going upstream in the Linux kernel.
I am a patron of Kent Overstreet
because damn am I excited about this development.
And he's been spending a few years working on BcacheFS
and it's based out of the Bcache BlockCache technology.
And he's working now to upstream that
to the mainline kernel.
He believes, Kent believes that the on-disk format
BcacheFS is now in good shape
and he doesn't see any major on-disk format changes coming
from this point forward.
BcacheFS is ready to go.
It's a copy on-write file system
that supports native compression, encryption,
caching, snapshots, multiple devices
and lots of other modern capabilities.
So we can just sort of look at BcacheFS
and say, guys, that was a great effort.
Thank you so much.
What's come before is appreciated
but let's look forward to BcacheFS
maybe shipping in 4.18 if we're lucky.
What do you think Wes?
Yeah, it does kind of feel like
the last great Linux file system hope for the modern era.
And, you know, it started from Bcache
which has a really, has had solid technical foundations.
Lots of people have used it.
We've been kind of, it's been in the wings waiting
just cut quietly working.
It's somewhat surprising in some sense
that there's been less,
there hasn't been that much resistance.
It seems like, you know, Kent obviously benefits
from having a long history working
with the kernel community in contributions.
So he kind of knows how to play the game here.
And there's not a ton of crazy changes
all around the kernel that have to get made
to facilitate this being upstreamed.
Now, of course, we should,
we have to wait and see how the patches are received,
see what the actual review is, what kind of, you know,
timeline, is it going to be a couple releases?
Is it going to end up in 4.18?
Who knows?
But as a personal user of BcacheFS
and having to, you know, compile the module myself
and add it in, I'm not doing anything fancy with it
but it's been rock solid for me.
Interesting, I also saw there's some talk here
of providing an upgrade patch for Bcache users.
I guess a lot of what BcacheFS really is
is just an improved version of Bcache.
So at some point when you want to switch to this new code,
you'll be able to kind of transparently do so.
That's really cool.
Yeah, you make a good point
that there isn't a lot of dramatic changes
that have to happen to the Linux kernel
to actually facilitate this.
So it could be pretty smooth
and Kent does have the experience there.
TechMav in the irc, irc.geekshed.net,
Pound Jupiter Broadcasting,
he's asking if there's any updates on Strata
or Stratus from Red Hat,
which if you recall is their disk management system
that looks like it's a whole bunch of really nice utilities
including things like the XFS disk format and whatnot
that are sort of brought together
as a ButterFS replacement or ZFS alternative.
And I don't think there's a big movement publicly at TechMav
but I believe if things go as planned,
we may see more in Fedora 29
and I think there is some previews in Fedora 28
for Strata as well.
I suspect that's gonna be something
that lands surprisingly at some point, it'll just drop.
Yeah, and then it'll be in a Red Hat Enterprise release.
It'll be like in the next big release.
Yeah, exactly.
But if none of that works out for you,
then why not try NetBSD
because at least over at the NetBSD project this week,
they're announcing some of the initial results
from a massive audit of the NetBSD network stack.
It's just wrapping up now.
It's been going on for five fricking months.
Already hundreds of patches have been committed
to the source tree as a result of the work.
Dozens of bugs have been fixed
and a good number of actual remote triggering vulnerabilities
were discovered.
Changes were made to NetBSD's networking stack
to strengthen the networking subsystem
and improve code quality.
And it was done in several layers of the NetBSD kernel
from drivers all the way up to the main L4 handlers.
And a lot of cleanup took place as well.
And it's one of these, and also code removal,
but it's one of these things when I see this,
I go, can we do this in all of the places?
So I tried to dig in and figure out
what's actually happening here in a code review like this.
And it feels very nebulous.
It can vary a lot from static code analysis,
machine scripts you run it through
that just do static code analysis
to like experts reviewing the code.
There's a big range of ways to audit code,
but it does seem like every time we do something like this,
a whole bunch of stuff is discovered.
I really applaud the NetBSD project for sitting down
and doing this work.
And then also trying to see if maybe some of those same
things apply to some of the other BSDs.
It's nice to see that happening.
Even if it's not a Linux related story,
it's nice to see an audit like this.
Oh yeah, right.
I mean, NetBSD is super useful.
It's a great open source operating system.
And it's just done a great job of maintaining
a pretty clean code base and they have good features.
There's a lot of stuff happening there
we don't talk about very much
and props to them for taking security seriously.
Yeah, and it's good to see that the BSDs
can actually do this from time to time
because nobody uses them, of course.
So therefore these things need to happen.
I mean, oh, I had to.
It's Linux unplugged after all.
There is a great bit of write up in the blog post
that we'll have linked to the show notes
at linuxunplugged.com slash 251
about like the actual bugs and what they caused
and how they were fixed.
It's really in depth, tech snap level in depth
kind of stuff if you want to go get all kind of cray cray.
Maybe even future tech snap material
if those BSD now guys don't steal it from us, Wes.
I hope they don't.
Now let's talk about an app pick this week.
We haven't done one yet in the show.
Slow-mo video, everybody's all about it on YouTube.
But how do you do it?
How do you do it?
How do you do it with open source software?
Slow-mo video on GitHub accomplishes just that.
It's slow-mo for all the things
and it'll give you a nice step-by-step way
to create three different types of slow-mo
in case that wasn't enough slow-mo.
You can have three different types
and it is linked in the show notes
and it does, of course, work on Linux.
Slow-mo video for all the things.
Why not have it, you can have it.
And if you can't do it open source,
can you even really do it at all?
We say no.
We shouldn't call it open source or free software,
we should call it sustainable.
It's sustainable software.
There we go, sustainable software.
You heard it here first, small batch.
Small batch, sustainable, organically,
locally sourced, open source software.
That's what you should call it.
We'll have a link to that in the show notes.
Now I want to thank Ting.
Thank you so much, Ting,
for making even a couple of bars in Grants Pass
when the whole town is out of internet possible.
At least the cell towers still have internet.
Ting is smarter than unlimited.
If you use less, you pay less.
So go to linux.ting.com.
They'll take $25 off a device.
If you have one that's compatible
because they have GSM and CDMA,
then they'll give you $25 in service credit.
Now I'm sitting here in a tiny hotel room,
if you can't tell,
which sounds nothing like my regular studio.
And I am literally in a town
that is without internet today.
And if it wasn't for Ting,
I wouldn't even be able to record in this tiny hotel room
while they work on LadyJuice.
It's so flexible.
And this is what I love about it as a small business owner.
I'm gonna take a minute.
I usually, I try to talk about this
from a consumer standpoint,
but this week I want to talk to you guys about this
from a small business standpoint.
If you have more than three lines and you're on Ting,
you're gonna start saving money immediately
as a small business owner.
If you go above 10 lines,
nobody in the US is gonna beat Ting.
It's $6 a month for the line.
And then it's just your minutes, your megabytes,
your whatever, you just pay for what you use.
It's not like in the past
where I worked in other organizations
where every single line was like $25 to add a line.
And then we had like this really complicated pool of minutes
and a pool of data.
And so if one person was using a lot of data
while they were in some really kind of tiny hotel room,
then the rest of the team
would sort of have to try to conserve data
because we had this pool that we were pulling.
It's so complicated and so obtuse
that the staff didn't really track it
and didn't really pay attention
and it didn't really work for anybody.
And with Ting, it's just,
it's really easy for everyone to understand.
$6 for the line and then your usage on top of that.
That's it.
It's so straightforward.
The average Ting bill is just $23 per phone per month.
That's easy.
That's totally easy.
And if you go to Ting,
they have an excellent control panel.
You can turn off individual services
or set limits and usage alerts and all of that kind of stuff.
It's so useful when I'm on the road
or when we have an event going on,
I cannot tell you how great it is.
And they really don't care what you wanna use
or how you wanna use it.
I really appreciate that too.
Like if you get to a point
where you can get some crazy ass wearable device
with Asteroid OS or something on a cellular network,
Ting's cool with that.
You just go buy a SIM card directly from them.
They have this approach that's really kind of hands off.
And I'm putting words in their mouth,
but they're just a dumb pipe.
They just, they're totally cool.
If you only wanna use them as a dumb pipe
to get data down to a device, totally okay with that.
If you wanna use them for emergency phone calls
and you have like a phone in your glove box
that you use every now and then,
they're totally okay with that too.
I love that.
And they got no big like strategic reason,
no strategy tax for why they can't just send updates
down to your phone.
They're not gonna get in the way with the Ting experience.
So if you want to go get something from them
or bring your own device
and you wanna get updates every single month
or you want a device that stays updated and secure,
they're not gonna get in the way of that.
I like all of those things, linux.ting.com.
Go there to support the show and get $25 off a device
and to get $25 in service credit
if you bring your own device, linux.ting.com.
Oh yeah, all right.
I wanna try something new.
You ready?
West, you got your, get your pants unbuttoned.
Make room for ultimate comfort.
Here we go.
Let's talk about Fedora 26.
Fedora 26, which came out two releases ago.
Let's spend a moment and talk about it.
I thought about making this an official segment on the show
but instead, this is just an FYI to Fedora users.
Fedora 26 is ending its life support.
It's no longer getting patches very, very soon.
And I wanted to kind of give you a PSA,
but I thought let's look back and see where we were at.
And I might do this with future distros too
as they end support, maybe look back at their prime,
see what they brought new to the table back then,
which is kind of interesting to look
where we're sitting at now.
So as you know, Fedora 28 was recently released,
which means Fedora 26 is hitting end of life
on May 29th, 2018.
That's just, well, that's today.
So as this episode records, that is right now,
it is end of life, Fedora 26 is end of life.
So you may feel like that's a little early
and you're right.
Fedora 28 was released on time.
You see, that doesn't normally happen for the Fedora project
and I forgot to make a big deal about it at the time,
so I'm making up for that right now.
But see, they screwed you when they released it on time.
They screwed you if you're a Fedora 26 user
because that means that Fedora 26
is now at that end of life period.
Even though it hasn't fully been 11 months for Fedora 26,
it's part of the life cycle for Fedora.
So you just kinda have to just move on now.
And I apologize for all of you Noah Chalias out there
that are still rocking Fedora 26
and everything's working good.
That's just the way this works and we all knew it.
And that's why I've been testing the upgrades
for a long, long time now.
So I recommend you upgrade to Fedora 28
and I tested going from Fedora 26 to Fedora 28
and it works good.
It wasn't a super complicated rig, but I would recommend it.
And I think it's worth considering
because the Fedora 26 wallet was really great.
Fedora 28 I think is one of their best releases
and I think it's a pretty solid upgrade.
But let's look back at 26 for a moment.
Just take a moment and look back at 26.
During its lifetime, the Fedora community
published nearly 10,000 updates
to Fedora 26's repositories.
During Fedora 26's release,
it was hyped for having version 3.24 of GNOME.
It came with a new partitioning tool in Anaconda
and it shipped with DNF 2.5
as well as the Python classroom lab.
And that all in itself, the new partitioning actually,
the new partitioning tool in Anaconda
was kind of a big deal.
And it was something that even Wes and I remarked
on our review of 28 recently
is that this is still a little odd.
Oh yeah, I love that thing.
So looking back on Fedora 26, pretty nice release,
but here's the cadence you need to keep in mind.
The Fedora project provides updates
for a particular release until a month
after the second subsequent version of Fedora is released.
So Fedora 26 continues to one month
after Fedora 28 has been released.
So here we are, it is time to pay.
But time does move on.
Things that were done in the past have wrapped up.
It's time to embrace the new stuff.
And if you're a Fedora 28 user already,
then you're probably looking forward to Fedora 29,
which comes with a new D-Bus, D-Bus broker,
also Project Silver Blue or Atomic Workstation,
whatever you like to call it,
is supposedly getting a more feature complete release.
And we're gonna see Xorg 1.20 in Fedora 29.
So there's already some nice things in the works
for the next version of Fedora.
I think it's gonna be your new distro of choice, Wes.
I can see it already.
I am actually kind of excited.
And maybe if you're like big into IoT,
it sounds like there's gonna be an IoT edition.
Everybody's making IoT editions.
It's the next big thing.
I mean, their goal is to be the default IoT operating system.
We'll see if it happens.
Now, I guess, I mean, if this was two years ago,
it would be a mobile edition, and now it's IoT edition.
Yeah, you're right.
Next up, blockchain edition, right?
Fedora is, in my opinion, better than ever.
And I think if you haven't tried it for a while,
it's worth taking another look
because I think 28 was a great release
and I've been using the hell out of QoNotes
and Nextcloud on Fedora 28.
So that's sort of been influencing my opinion
of what makes it such a good releases.
It's been working great for me on the server.
Surprise, surprise.
Speaking of servers, do.co slash unplugged.
Do.co slash unplugged is where you go
to get $100 credit for DigitalOcean.
Go over to DigitalOcean and spin up a rig
in less than 55 seconds.
Everything is SSDs.
The entire stack or just the bare system.
So take a, for example, Fedora 28 cloud.
When you spin up a Fedora 28 cloud instance
on DigitalOcean, you don't even set a root password.
You don't get emailed a root password.
You add an SSH key.
You add your SSH key because this Fedora cloud
is built to run on these exact types of instances.
You spin it up in seconds and you just SSH right in
and you get working.
You can manage all of your DNS,
you can add new storage as you need,
and they have these flexible droplets
where you can mix and match the resources
that are most appropriate for your application.
So try it out.
Go to do.co slash unplugged.
You sign up with a new account, you get a $100 credit,
and you can try it out.
They got data centers all over the world,
SSDs for everything, $5 a month for the starting price.
My favorite rig, three cents an hour.
Check it out.
Do.co slash unplugged.
It's DigitalOcean and it's something that's worth your time.
It's worth trying out, it's worth kicking the tires
because I've gone from building systems on my LAN
to this is my data center now.
And I would not lightly tell you that.
It took me a couple of years to make the transition.
I've been a DigitalOcean customer for years now,
four years, maybe, maybe even longer.
And it's still something that's a transition for me
because I started in the industry
setting up servers in racks.
That's really how I got started is building servers
and installing them in racks and really big data centers.
And I've always had that mentality.
But the flexibility, the control I have
and the speed in which I can get something set up
and running in production, it's a game changer for me.
It's a real game changer.
And I'd like you to try it out.
You can get $100 for 60 days
to try out the DigitalOcean infrastructure.
Do.co slash unplugged.
Big thank you to DigitalOcean
for sponsoring the unplugged program.
I don't know if I ever saw this one coming,
but I am very, very happy it is here.
The Sega Mega Drive and Genesis Classic
is now supported on Linux.
There's a big price drop.
Now think about this as like this arcade
to run classic Sega games.
And not only did they add Linux support,
but they've also upgraded new features
like two-player online support, challenge modes,
ROMs from other regions,
which I don't even understand why they put that in there.
That's so great.
VR support, which is ridiculous.
It includes over 50 titles.
Yeah, seriously.
And it's all like these classic Sega games
that you can now play on Linux.
And it's supported by them.
And it's like 30 bucks for the whole collection,
the entire collection.
Does this make it the year of the Linux gaming desktop?
Have we finally arrived?
Maybe they're getting ready for all those Chromebooks
that are gonna let you run Linux apps.
Damn it.
Oh, damn it.
I hope that's not why.
Actually, now that I said that,
but they're shipping it via Steam, so I doubt it.
But I suppose you could install Steam on a Chromebook.
I don't know.
LG is shipping a 37-inch ultra-wide screen
that can run Ubuntu or Linux.
Sega Mega Drive is updating for Linux.
Chrome, aka Google,
is working hard to get Linux support on Chromebooks.
Microsoft is spending a ton of resources
and getting a lot of public attention
for the Windows subsystem for Linux.
And Samsung is trying to make Linux apps
run on their mobile phones in some sort
of convergence environment.
So you tell me, Wes, what the hell is going on right now?
It's the future, and I like it.
I guess?
So why am I sort of worried about all of those individually?
Like, all together, this feels like, yay, Linux.
But individually, each one of them
is freaking me out for different reasons.
I mean, it's a little bit like, you know,
there's some FOMO, there's some sort of concern
of just like, this thing's going in a lot of different ways.
How consistent is the experience
going to be across these?
What sort of idea will new users who
are using that form of, quote unquote,
Linux really get about the wider Linux software
ecosystem and community?
I don't know.
It's so early, I feel like we don't really
know which ones are going to win,
which ones are going to be successful,
and how it's all going to shake out.
Yeah, and like TechMav says, maybe I'm
worried that we're putting the penguins in the zoo.
That might be exactly what it is,
is that instead of having this general technology platform OS,
it's like this feature.
It's like this, it's this bullet point
on top of these proprietary commercial products.
Poby had a great conversation in the last week Ubuntu podcast
that was basically, has Linux sort of failed
to attract desktop applications?
Instead, we get Electron and whatnot.
But at the same time, you see all these companies that
are trying to add compatibility for Linux applications,
and it's not just command line applications.
Poby, what do you think about that?
So I'll just encourage people to go
listen to the last Ubuntu podcast to hear your argument.
But you make a very salient argument
that perhaps we're looking at sort of a future
that none of us wanted.
And we have a lot of Linux installs,
but we don't have anybody that's really
got a successful Linux application
toolkit or desktop toolkit.
But yet, at the same time, you've got Chromebooks,
you've got the subsystem for Linux, which I guarantee you
will soon have desktop Linux support apps.
You have Samsung.
How do you square those two things?
We're quite a niche.
Like, if Linux is like the flea on a dog,
we're bacteria on the flea.
Like, we're nothing.
Like, you compare us to what everyone else
is using around the world, and this significant majority
don't even know what Linux is, let alone use it.
And so developers don't target it, because it's just
not worth it.
You hear time and time again that many developers
don't target Linux, because it's not worth it,
because the time investment doesn't pay back.
If they release a game, the amount of time
and effort to port that game is not repaid.
And so that's why you see articles by Liam
on gaming on Linux celebrating when someone does do that,
because it's so rare, so few and far between.
It's like, if someone announced a new game for Windows,
it's like, well, yeah, always.
There's always new games for Windows.
But we clutch at these successful events here and there.
But they are few and far between.
And yeah, we have, in some ways, lost.
I mean, I think, by and large, lost in that sense is accurate.
And we probably won't ever see mainstream adoption
of the Linux experience that we know and love,
that the people listening to the show, by and large, enjoy.
I'm grateful in some sense that Electron, those sorts of things
that aren't Linux special, but end up working on Linux.
We've seen more adoption in the case of,
I feel like I can use my specialty system,
acknowledging that I'm in a niche,
that I'm doing it in a strange way to most people,
but actually get work done, mostly
be compatible with the rest of the world.
I do think, though, that there's not a lot of chance
that maybe your relatives will be using Linux,
and you won't have to be the IT guy,
but it won't be the Linux that you know or are
familiar with.
I feel like I was a bit of a Debbie Downer in that episode.
And we had a lot of feedback from people saying, well,
it depends how you define success.
There's still millions of people using Linux,
both in servers and billions using it on their phones.
But on the desktop specifically, I
think we're far from what you would call massively successful.
Definitely.
Compared to the others.
And we've been doing this for a long time now.
I think the experience has gotten better, right?
It's pretty consistent.
I just converted some of my family over to 1804,
and they're using Steam on it and having a great time.
But we just haven't made any inroads
in the default deployments, in any kind of marketing.
And don't get me wrong.
I love it.
Right.
Yeah, of course.
And I want to spread the word, and I
want more people to use it.
But we need to attract developers
to build software for our platform,
or people aren't going to use our platform.
Nobody switched to Linux for G-Edit.
Nobody switched to Linux for your GNOME calculator.
You've got to have that killer app.
You've got to have some reason for people to switch.
Some people switch for freedom.
Some people switch because resource management.
Some people switch for the privacy, right?
But there's very few killer apps that make people think, yes,
I definitely today want to install Linux,
whereas someone will actively go and buy
a Mac for software that is only available on the Mac.
And people will install Windows specifically
for a piece of software that is only available on Windows.
And we don't have that.
Right.
And we don't have a big brand anymore, really.
You know, there isn't someone, a big marketing organization,
isn't some sort of company.
We have pieces here and there.
But there's not, you know, we don't have a,
a bunch of us the closest.
And maybe that can be rekindled.
But with some, you know, there's feelings
of not having much focus in that area.
Or less focus there feels even farther away, maybe.
Right.
Yeah.
You know, though, we do win on one level.
And that is the Fiddly experience.
If you get the right system.
I've been recently listening to fellow podcaster Mike Hurley
go through the process of setting up a Windows 10 gaming
system.
Now he, Mike, is a Mac guy.
Through and through, he loves Macs and iPads
and all that kind of stuff.
And so he never really built a Windows PC in his life.
And he never had to deal with device drivers,
never had to deal with different vendors making
different components for his PC.
And so for the last two weeks, he
has been dealing with driver hell.
Like he needed to get his Tascam recorder
so he can do podcasting and live streaming working.
And when he did that, it broke his Bluetooth driver.
And then when he fixed his Bluetooth driver,
it broke SLI on his video gaming setup.
And then when he fixed the SLI setup, it caused another issue.
And this is a brand new system that he just put together.
And all of this Fiddliness that he has to do
is something you don't really screw around with.
On Linux, you may have to deal with a binary blob
for your video card here and there.
But for the most part, everything,
if it's going to work, it just works.
You're not dealing with drivers.
You're not dealing with all these separate sources
to get stuff.
I think we have lost sight of how easy
Linux makes some of this stuff.
And I say that because I was going over
setting up a new broadcasting system based
on Linux for Linux Academy.
And man, is it so much easier when the bullet point
to getting the whole OS and all of your device drivers working
is install Kubuntu 18.04.
That's it, right?
But done.
Exactly, you're done.
You don't have to mess with anything else.
You install Kubuntu 18.04.
That's a good argument for why a lot of people
moved away from Linux to things like the maker community.
Because it was fun and interesting
when you had to, to some degree, for some people,
to edit your xorg.conf and make sure the right daemons were
starting when you start up.
And I know a lot of Arch users still do that and still
find that interesting and fun.
I don't, and the vast majority of people don't.
They just want to put an ISO image on a CD,
boot that CD or USB, install it, and then move on.
And I think a lot of enthusiasts move on
from the Linux community because that's not fun anymore.
You could just install the OS and then use it as a tool.
Now people are doing things like Arduinos and microcontrollers
and 3D printers and stuff like that which are more interesting
because they are challenging.
And they don't work straight away.
And it's not like putting a USB key in and it just works.
There's a lot of fiddling and feckling to do.
So I think we've lost some of that.
We're victims of our own success.
Try out SUSE.
It's just like that.
Yeah.
Oosh.
You're in a mood today.
I just kid because every time I apparently say something,
it triggers Richard and he has to tweet me about it
because I give him a hard time for it
asked me to confirm my network configuration and card
and probe by FireWare devices on LAN.
And so he gave me a tweet about it.
But I tease.
Yeah, I agree, Poby.
Maybe you're right.
Maybe that is why some people are moving away.
But I don't feel it as somebody who
has been trying to make Linux work on my desktop
since long before it was appropriate to do so.
And I don't know why my employers let me get away with it
to now where it's what I make my living doing.
And I got to tell you, as somebody who is using it now,
it is so much easier than it used to be.
It is ridiculous.
I am doing this live show, this entire freaking live show
from Grants Pass, Oregon in this stinky tiny hotel room
all on Linux end to end.
Even in the studio, the machines that
are doing all the routing and the recording
and the processing and all of it, everything, even the mixer
is Linux from end to end.
And that would not have been the case a couple of years ago.
Right.
And we're victims of our own success there.
It's got to the point where you can do a live stream
and you could take your show on the road and everything works.
Like, why would you need nerds around you to help you fix it?
Because it all works now.
Yeah, that's good and bad, isn't it?
I mean, it's good for getting to a larger consumer base.
And my big drive for always trying
to get wider user adoption has always
been for wider application support.
I just, for some really naive reason,
thought it would be native application support.
I don't know what it was.
Right.
I think a lot of us did, and we were wrong.
Yeah, I did not expect this.
But along those lines, I also didn't expect this to happen.
And it is actually happening.
If I say the name RED when it comes to media production,
I think a lot of you would immediately
think of those really high end, beautiful RED 8K cameras.
And the thing about those RED cameras
is that they are a beast onto their own.
They have their own proprietary capture hardware
to pull that stuff down.
They have their own raw format.
And I say raw because it's not quite raw.
Like, when I think of raw, I think of raw data.
When they think of raw, they think of a tool
that you need to re-encode that to make
it readable by anything else.
And that has only been available on the Mac and on Windows,
except for today.
Today, RED is releasing their REDLINE tool
and their RED Undead tool, which are
two different utilities for managing
footage that has been recorded on a RED 8K camera.
They're releasing them for Linux.
And they're native Linux applications.
They're not perfect.
I don't have a RED camera to test,
so I just downloaded the applications and ran them.
I didn't have any footage to import.
But they support export to what I
consider to be really high end, intermediate exchange formats.
Much like how when you're moving an audio file or a picture
between editing and you don't want to keep recompressing it,
like to JPEG or whatever or to MP3,
you have that same issue with video.
And so a lot of times, editors use something like ProRes,
MJPEG, or a bunch of other stuff.
And their Linux version of this RED utility
is going to support a lot of those, including Apple's ProRes.
So that way, you can download footage on a Linux box,
and you can convert it to ProRes on a Linux box.
Wow.
That's a big deal, I think.
And yeah, I don't know why RED's doing this,
but I think that is a really good sign.
I wonder if there's just less, there's
already a lot of Linux deployed at the higher end production
studios.
Is it just it makes their pipeline simpler
if they don't have to include some other things?
They can get this streamed up and then, sure,
the ProRes ends up on some Mac where they maybe
edit it down the line, but keeps it a little simpler.
It is kind of funny if you look at their website,
even it says red line Linux and then beta, of course.
But at the bottom, they still have the Mac and Windows logo
for the release.
Yeah, it's new.
It just launched today.
The site's not totally done yet.
Hey, I noticed that, too.
It's like, so am I getting a Linux version?
Or am I getting this?
Yeah, what is it?
But when you download it, it is 100% a Linux application.
It's in a tar.gz and everything.
Yeah, it's full GNU slash.
All right, so let's talk about some new hardware.
We were talking last week about the best Linux laptop for 2018.
We got a whole bunch of feedback.
And to kind of kick this new segment off,
we have a batch of new hardware from Dell, thinner, lighter,
and more powerful, all things that are good.
And we have a whole new line.
You have the 3530 and also the 5530, the 7530, and the 7730.
Beefy.
Yeah.
Barton George, friend of the show, Barton George,
says these systems, which represent the fourth generation
of Precision Developer Editions, come preloaded with Ubuntu
and also have been certified for Red Hat Enterprise Linux.
Now, this is on top of the XPS 13 that is already available.
The Precision 3530 is the first one that is available.
Its starting price is $943.
That'll get you a 15.6 inch 1366 by 768.
Ugh.
Yeah.
Don't say it.
Just don't even say it.
I'm sorry, I shouldn't have even said it.
Four gigs of RAM and an Intel i5.
So don't get the $943 model, unless you have to.
But as with all Dells, you can configure it way up from there.
There's also going to be the other models I mentioned,
the 5530, 7530, and 7730, we'll be shipping later,
with 1604 installed on all of them.
And eighth gen Intel processors, all those goodies.
All the typical goodies that you would
get in the latest bump of Dell or any kind of recent laptop
hardware.
So yeah, as we're about to open up this segment here
on the show, you have a whole new batch
of laptops you could potentially buy.
So get your credit cards ready.
Those Precision machines are pretty slick, too.
I used the older, back when it was the bigger, uglier
chassis of the previous generation, for a long time.
And they're just sturdy, really a good desktop replacement,
if that's what you need it for.
So now that they look a lot nicer, I'm kind of interested.
Yeah, and it's always nice to see them just getting
another spec bump, just to keep seeing, really what's nice,
actually, is to keep seeing Dell keep working at this,
just keep iterating on this.
Yeah, it's more Linux momentum.
And it's paid off.
So we sent out the vote last episode.
And what I have found over the years
is we may have thousands of you download this,
tens of thousands of you download this,
but only a few hundred of you ever really vote on these polls.
But anywhere between a couple of hundred and a thousand,
it almost always shakes out to be the same.
And I guess that's just the way that the math works.
So let's start with what didn't do well and what did well.
Last week, we asked the audience,
what is the best Linux laptop on this list for 2018?
We had the Oryx Pro on there.
We had the ThinkPad X270 and 280, the X1 Carbon,
the Librem 15, and the XPS 13.
And we asked you guys, what do you think is,
if you were going to buy one today,
which laptop would you buy?
And I also said, whichever laptop doesn't win the vote
will just take off the list.
And we won't be recommending that one to folks.
And the one that fell off the list this week,
I'm really kind of unsatisfied with.
It's really unfortunate.
And maybe it's partially my fault. The Librem 15
only got 5% of votes, 5% of votes.
Yeah, it is a big ouch.
And I don't know what's going on here.
I think there's a bigger problem that Purism is dealing with.
And it's this sort of outsider status that I feel like they
have.
I feel like people don't know about them,
and they don't think about them when they
think of Linux-first hardware.
And I can't really put my finger on it.
I don't know if it's because they did crowdfunding,
or if it's because they're kind of going their own way
with PureOS.
I kind of have more of a sense it's that.
But what's your impression on that, Wes?
Do you feel like maybe they're not getting a fair shake?
Because you have a vendor here who is making hardware just
for Linux, physical kill switches.
It only ships Linux.
And it is the bottom of our list.
You know, it might just be a weird subset of people
that are kind of interested in this.
They're not always bargain-basement.
So if you're on a budget, they're not super expensive.
Then that's not necessarily an Apple tax.
But it's a little bit more over like a minimal XPS
or something like that.
And I think some of these pre-installed or super
customized strange distributions are
off-putting to experienced users that feel that they're
going to have to flash it anyway.
And maybe you just want some, to quote Pope,
bog-standard hardware that you're
going to install your own distribution on anyway.
And then for people that would benefit more
from a pre-installed Linux that don't want
them to mess with it so much, they probably
haven't heard of them.
I mean, there has been a kind of bumpy track record, too.
I know their most recent Librem 15 is a nice piece of hardware.
But I don't know if they've just had enough of a track record
now in the good for people to have a lot of trust
in an expensive purchase.
Yeah, that's also a good point.
Good points, Wes, all in all.
Mumbler, do you have anything to add?
Why do you think it is that purism
isn't higher up on our list?
And why isn't a Librem 15 or 13 more forward from Linux users
when they want to buy a Linux-first laptop?
I think if you have a support problem,
you would like an established company, maybe.
Also, maybe the keyboard.
Let's say you have some worldwide audition.
And here in Switzerland, I cannot buy a Librem laptop
because of the missing keyboard for Switzerland.
Yeah, I mean, definitely international
is a problem that is hard for a company like Purism that's just
getting started to address.
But it does seem like a deeper issue.
I'd like to know the audience's thoughts,
because honestly, I feel like they maybe deserve a little
more credit than they're getting.
I was skeptical when I got my Librem 15, the original one,
and it wasn't what I wanted.
But when they did a make good and they sent me
a second or third iteration on the Librem 15,
it was a marked improvement in quality.
I could easily see where the trend line was going.
And it's not just me that said that.
When we have guests in the studio,
besides Wes, because Wes brings his own hardware,
and we have guests in the studio,
I give them the Librem 15 to use.
And people constantly remark on how nice the machine is.
And when Noah was in town, he sat down.
He's like, really?
This is the Librem 15?
This is way nicer than I thought it would be.
And a lot of people comment on how great the keyboard is,
and the design looks great, the performance is good.
And it really is the big loser on our list.
And I don't really understand, because the number two
on our list is the Oryx Pro.
Well, these are the only two systems on our list
that are created by vendors that only make stuff for Linux,
that only ship Linux, System76 and the Librem 15.
That with the System76, you could have put the Galego Pro.
We decided to put the Oryx Pro,
because we were going for something a little high more.
It was brand new and high performance.
But still, the fact that ThinkPads and the XPS
are dominating this list, I think is telling.
And so the XPS 13 is the one that was the clear winner.
44% of the votes.
The number two was the X1 Carbon with 20% of the votes.
And then the number three was the X270
with 17% of the votes.
So the Carbon and the X270 were the closest.
Then it drops down to the Oryx Pro at 15%,
and then the Librem 15 at 5%.
It's devastating.
And it, again, gives me concern
about how the Librem 5 is going to do.
So these are bad numbers for the vendors
that ship only Linux systems.
And I can't explain it, to be honest with you,
because if everything I hear is consistent,
people want companies that are making computers
for Linux first.
But then when you look at the actual numbers in our polls,
or you go to any kind of conference or event,
and it's stacked full of MacBooks, ThinkPads,
and then Dells, that's the three.
And then the fourth would be maybe an HP.
And then the fifth is like a mix of Chromebooks.
That's what you get when you go to these events.
I don't know what to make of that.
Anybody in the Mumba room have additional thoughts
on why these Linux-only vendors are not doing super well
in our Linux user poll?
Well, I would have to say that there's also
the original premise of purism was,
well, I think the premise still is like
to be privacy-focused, and that sort of marketing
sort of alienates people on occasion.
I suppose if you're not marketing for the other factors,
because it's not like some of the privacy features
don't really detract from the rest of the system,
but if all you're hearing is,
oh, this is all about privacy, these are the features,
this is what makes us great, and less about,
this is why this would just be a good laptop for you,
then yeah, maybe you're less interested.
I mean, and also a lot of the Linux laptop brands
are based in Europe, and they don't have a foothold
in the United States yet,
so I don't see any sort of competition.
I know the Sputnik program at Dell
is sort of an initiative,
but is there really enough competition
in order to get Linux-based laptops
into a market of their own?
Bobby, do you have any thoughts?
I've not actually seen a Librem laptop,
but they've sent us one for review.
So very soon now, Mark has it,
and we'll be comparing,
because I believe the one we've got
is the same hard physical hardware
as the KDE Slimbook 2 that I've got for review.
So interestingly, we'll be able to compare and contrast,
and decide whether, you know, should you buy the Purism,
or should you buy the KDE Slimbook?
Well, interesting, and I look forward to hearing that.
But, you know, the votes have it.
We'll take the Librem 15 off the list,
and we'll have our list of our recommended laptops
for 2018, at least.
And maybe the Librem 15 gets back on there for 2019.
But Dom emailed in, by the way,
he emailed us in at linuxunplugged.com slash contact.
He said, I have a couple of recommendations,
depending on which laptop you get.
So if you're gonna get the XPS 13,
they have two different models
that they're selling right now,
the 9360 and the 9370.
And you'll notice this immediately
if you start doing research.
There's these two different models out there.
Dell is selling both of those models
with upgraded eighth-gen processors.
The 9370 is slimmer, but it embraces the dongle lifestyle.
And the 9370 has a better screen,
and it's like, that's really saying something,
because the screen before it was already
like one of the best ever.
Now, Dom suggests you don't buy the Linux version.
Now, you might wanna double check this,
depending on when you listen to this episode.
He says, currently, the Linux version
still has the seventh-gen Intel processor.
He recommends, get the Windows version of the laptop,
but switch out the killer wireless card for an Intel card
for better Linux support.
Get a 1080p screen for better battery life.
And also, remember that you're not gonna be able
to upgrade the RAM later,
so keep that in mind when you're speccing it.
The 9360 has a full side SD card.
The 9370 only has micro SD.
The 9360 has a larger battery than the 9370,
but the 9370 is just slimmer in general.
When you're looking at the X270 or X1 Carbon models,
maybe consider just skipping the X280 right now.
Lenovo went kind of MacBook Air on that one,
and they removed all of the features that made it great,
including soldering some stuff on.
So, consider if you're gonna go with the X270 or 280 line,
focus maybe more on the X270 for now,
and remember, you're gonna need an Ethernet dongle
with that one.
But the XPS 13 was our champion.
It was the winning laptop for the poll.
So, just look at this list, we'll have it linked.
Dom's gonna suggest that you consider looking
at the 93060 versus the 93070, depending on your needs.
For me personally, I might still wanna go with the 93060,
because it's got the eighth generation Intel processor,
and it's got the larger battery life,
and it uses less dongles.
It just has a downgrade on the screen.
Right, and it's already pretty slim.
Like, they're not fat laptops.
Right, yeah, it's still very, very thin.
Very nice laptop.
I mean, I have an older one that's from that,
and it's still very thin and very nice.
All right, I think we're done with the laptops.
I don't know, I don't know.
Hopefully this show wasn't horrible, Wes.
I feel like it could've been a little stronger,
could've been a little better
if I wasn't running around town beforehand,
trying to find internet.
You did have that Levi story, though.
That always pulls it out, even though he's not feeling well.
We're all glad to hear he's feeling better.
And you know, Wes, really, it was for me this week.
It was for me just to be able to do this
and talk to you guys and not have everything in my life
be totally crazy right now.
So hopefully the audience loved it.
I don't think so, but hopefully a couple people
out there liked it.
Let us know, and also let us know your thoughts
on the laptops, Linux Action.
No, nope, nope, it's not Linux.
Although you can go there, it's linuxunplug.com slash contact.
You can, you sure could.
I don't know.
If you wanna let us know over at Linux Action News
what you think, you can go to linuxactionnews.com
slash contact.
It's the same URL, just not the same URL,
it's a different show.
I don't know, Wes.
I think it's just totally gone off the rails at this point.
We should probably wrap it up.
But I'll leave Dom's email in the show notes
if you guys wanna go through his list,
because I know I just went through the highlights,
and all the other things we talked about
at linuxunplug.com slash 251.
Go check it all out there.
Mr. Payne, where can they get more of you?
You can find me on Twitter, at Wes Payne,
or go to TechSnap.Systems to check out
our other wonderful show.
Yeah, so go get more Wes and me at TechSnap.Systems.
I'm at Chris LAS.
I'll be tweeting some updates along the way.
And the whole network is at Jupiter Signal.
Thanks so much for tuning this week's episode
of the Unplugged program,
and we'll see you back here next Tuesday!
MEDIAH
Alright, let's uh, before we get out of here guys, thank you everybody, Momba Room, thank
you very much for putting up with all of that. I know that was difficult and challenging, so I
really appreciate you guys being here. Thank you guys. Go vote, people who are still around. We do
have, J-Bot seems to be alive today. Yeah, J-Bot. J-Bot survives, yeah. I tell you what, this day,
the one thing I, the one thing I didn't get a chance to say, uh, because I just, I was sick
of derailing the show, but while I'm sitting here during the last few minutes of the show,
I saw somebody go by, he's wearing a motorcycle helmet, no shirt, and then I think he's wearing
pants, I couldn't quite tell, and he was sitting outside the sunroof of a Suburban,
and they were going down the road. So to make it clear, this guy was sitting on top of a Suburban,
outside the sunroof, with no shirt on, wearing a motorcycle helmet, going down the road in front
of this motel room. Well, at least he's thinking, you know, about safety first. That's the only way
to get a good tan when you're on the road.